[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: When we look
at the news headlines, filled
with conflict and obscene levels
of inequity and unfairness,
one needs to look no further
than the money trail.
According to John
Perkins, author
of "Confessions of an Economic
Hit Man," secret factions
within the government strong-arm
lesser developed countries
into financial arrangements
designed to fail.
The troubles we see today
often have their root
in these practices.
I caught up with John in
Sausalito, California,
recently, just before
his departure to Ecuador.
John, it's good
to see you again.
It's been a couple
of years and a lot
has transpired in
that period of time.
>>JOHN PERKINS: Yes.
It's great to be
with you, Regina,
and the world has changed
and we've all changed.
>>REGINA: We have.
And we're sitting
on the precipice
of another presidential
election in the United States,
which we'll get to in a moment.
But before we get
into your background,
I thought we'd roll
that little animation
with your voice,
which I just love.
I love the cartooning that went
along with it because it pretty
much explains what you
used to do for a living.
So let's just take a moment
and roll that animation.
>>PERKINS: OK.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
We economic hitmen have
managed to create the world's
first truly global empire, and
it's basically a secret empire.
We do it in many ways.
But principally, we
identify a country
that has resources our
corporations covet, like oil,
arrange a huge loan to that
country from the World Bank
or one of its sisters.
The money never actually
goes to the country.
It goes to our own corporations
to build the infrastructure
projects in that country that
help a few very wealthy people,
but don't benefit the
majority of the people who
are too poor to buy
electricity or have
cars to drive on the highways.
And yet, they're left
holding a huge debt
that they can't repay.
So we go back at some point and
say, you can't pay your debts.
Give us a pound of flesh.
Sell your oil real cheap
to our oil companies.
Vote with us on the
next critical UN vote.
Allow us to build a military
base in your backyard.
Something along these lines.
And when we fail, the
jackals go in and either
overthrow or assassinate
these leaders.
And if the jackals fail,
as they did in Iraq, then
we send in the military.
I don't think the
failure is capitalism.
I think it's a specific
kind of capitalism where
we've developed-- we've
created what I consider
a mutant viral
form of capitalism.
And this mutant
form of capitalism,
which I think is really a
predatory form of capitalism,
has created an extremely
unstable, unsustainable,
unjust, and very,
very dangerous world.
[SIPS, GASPS]
I've met a lot of
terrorists, I've
interviewed them for books.
I've never met one who
wanted to be a terrorist.
They're desperate people.
If we want to get
rid of terrorism,
we must get rid of the root
causes, that cancer that
is destroying our whole system.
Because I think it's really
important that we understand
today, we cannot have Homeland
Security unless we understand
that the whole planet
is our homeland.
[SHUTTER CLICKS]
[VIDEO PLAYBACK ENDS]
>>REGINA: Do you think
they did a good job?
I know you didn't produce that.
>>PERKINS: No.
But I think I'm better as a
cartoon than in real life,
so I don't know how I can
follow up on that, Regina.
>>REGINA: OK.
Well, we still have some
things to talk about.
Two minutes didn't sum it all.
First of all, I know you've
had thousands of interviews
conducted, but give us an
idea of what the recruitment
process was, how you became
involved in that initially.
And then we'll start
moving through your life
forward from there.
>>PERKINS: Well, while
I was still in college,
I was in business
school in Boston,
I was recruited by the
National Security Agency,
primarily because
my wife at the time,
her father was very high
up in the government,
and one of his best friends
was high up in the National
Security Agency,
and I was looking
for a way out of Vietnam.
And they put me through
a series of tests,
including lie detector tests,
psychological tests, very, very
extensive.
What I later learned
was that they concluded
that I would make a good
economic hitman, a good con man
basically.
And I had the credentials, I was
graduating from business school
so I had the credentials.
And they also discovered that
I had three weaknesses, which
I think we could say are the
three big drugs of our culture,
at least for men perhaps.
And that's the desire to
have power, money, and sex.
I was a very young man
at the time, early 20s,
and I wanted all of these.
And I came from a fairly
poor rural background
in New Hampshire.
And so this all appealed to me.
But then, they also encouraged
me to go in the Peace Corps.
And I did.
For three years, I was in South
America working in the Amazon
and the Andes, primarily
with indigenous people.
Once I was in the
Peace Corps, I was
contacted by a man who later
became my boss at a consulting
firm who was closely affiliated
with the National Security
Agency through the Army Reserve,
which he was very high up
in as an intelligence officer.
And he came down to Ecuador,
where I was, and contacted me.
And basically offered
me a job when I got out
of the Peace Corps, but
part of the condition
was that I would
send back reports
from Ecuador about economic
things going on, what
was going on in South
America at the time.
What I saw with the
indigenous movements.
It was during the Cold
War, and so the US
had a great interest
in knowing what
was happening in some of
the revolutionary type
movements that were
growing in Latin America,
and he asked me to
send reports on that.
And I was happy to do it.
I had been an English
major, I loved writing,
so I kind of wrote
these flowing reports
that I put a little
bit of Tom Wolfe into.
>>REGINA: Tom Wolfe.
>>PERKINS: So I kind of did the
yellow-stripe, tangerine flake,
streamline baby
type of language.
And he loved this.
But I was giving him
good information too.
And then when I got
out of the Peace Corps,
they offered me a job as an
economist at this consulting
firm that he was a senior
vice president at, and had
very, very strong connections
with the National Security
Agency.
And basically, I was
put into training
to become, what we
call tongue-in-cheek,
an economic hitman.
My title was Economist,
and very quickly I
was promoted to
Chief Economist and I
had a staff working for me.
But basically, my
job was a con man.
To convince president's of
countries that had resources
that our corporations
covet, like oil, to accept
huge loans from the World Bank
and its sister organizations.
But the money would never
actually go to the country.
It would be used
by the World Bank
to hire our corporations
to build big infrastructure
projects in those countries.
Things like power plants
and industrial parks that,
of course, benefited
our corporations most.
And also benefited a few wealthy
families in those countries.
The families that owned the
industries and the banks and so
forth that used the electricity.
And the highways, and the
airports, and the ports.
But the majority of the
people in these countries
didn't benefit at all.
They didn't have enough
money to buy electricity.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PERKINS: And they didn't
get jobs in industrial parks
because they don't
hire many people.
And yet, they were left
holding this huge debt
that they couldn't
possibly repay.
>>REGINA: And that really gets
into the story of Ecuador.
Your life has
become inextricably
intertwined with Ecuador
throughout the decade.
And yet in the early
days, did you see yourself
as doing something
untoward in any way?
Or did you think this is just
a good job opportunity that
would satisfy your
other needs of life?
>>PERKINS: Well, you know,
Regina, it's interesting.
When I went to Ecuador as a
Peace Corps volunteer in 1968,
the country was run by a
military dictatorship that
had been put into power and
kept there by us, by the CIA,
by our people.
And Texaco had just discovered
that Ecuador had a lot of oil,
I don't even know
exactly how much.
But the news went
out that this oil
would be the means for
Ecuador to come up out
of the Dark Ages.
>>REGINA: You believed that?
>>PERKINS: I believed
it, too, because I
had been taught that
in business school.
That that's what happens
when countries get oil,
and then they can use that oil
as collateral, which Ecuador
did with these dictators,
or this military junta.
And use the oil that was still
in the ground as collateral
to get these huge loans
from the World Bank, which
economic hitmen were
in there pushing for.
But the money was used
to hire our corporations
to build the infrastructure
projects there.
And to help a few
wealthy people in Ecuador
get more and more wealthy.
And I didn't see all
that at the time.
I thought that,
yes, oil was going
to be used to help education.
>>PERKINS: Makes sense.
You were young.
>>PERKINS: Yeah.
Well, that's what we were
taught in business school too.
And we still are.
That is still the model.
>>REGINA: Well, what's
the reality of what
happened in Ecuador coming
right up to current times?
>>PERKINS: Well, the
reality is that Texaco
went in and raped the country.
And they just lost a
huge lawsuit, Texaco did,
which is now owned
by Chevron, so it
was a lawsuit on behalf of
30,000 Ecuadorian Amazonian
people against Chevron-Texaco,
because the terrible pollution.
People dying of toxic waste.
I mean, Texaco--
>>REGINA: And the
amount of dumping.
I read that a couple years
ago in your last book,
"Hoodwinked."
Horrible.
>>PERKINS: You go into the
northern Amazon and Ecuador,
and it's just a huge
mass of toxic waste.
And there's no drinking
water, no potable water.
People are still dying.
It's still a crime going on.
And Texaco lost the lawsuit,
but they're refusing to pay.
And Chevron also.
They say they have
no assets in Ecuador,
so Ecuador has no recourse.
>>REGINA: But there was
also some debt involved
and Correa said
we're not paying.
What happened around that, maybe
set that up a little bit for us
so we see what happens.
>>PERKINS: Well, President
Correa of Ecuador
has a PhD in economics from
the University of Illinois.
He's a capitalist.
He understands our system.
And he ran on a
ticket that said,
I'm going to get for my people
of Ecuador what they deserve.
So he said, realistically,
we need oil companies.
We need technology because
we don't have the technology.
But we're going to make sure
that these companies take care
of the environment, that
they do a really good job,
and they're very restricted
in certain areas,
and the people of
Ecuador get a fair share
of the proceeds that
come from our own oil.
And he was very popular and
got elected by a big majority,
and many of us
supported him strongly.
He's since changed.
He's made a lot of compromises.
And I think, to be
honest with you,
what happened was he got read
the riot act, like so many.
And in fact, a couple
years ago, the president
of Honduras, President Zelaya,
got overthrown in a CIA coup
because he stood up to Dole
and Chiquita, Russell Athletic,
a few other big
multinational corporations.
He was trying to increase the
minimum wage significantly
and have land
reform, which would
have impacted those
countries big time.
>>REGINA: We're talking about
wages of as little as 6.5 cents
an hour.
I mean, reform was needed.
>>PERKINS: Yeah.
And we're talking about
one of the lowest wage
rates in the hemisphere.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PERKINS: So Haiti and
Honduras are about the lowest.
The same thing happened
to Aristide in Haiti.
When both of these men,
Aristide and Zelaya,
threatened to increase the wage
rate by 60% percent or more--
>>REGINA: From what?
6.5 cents to a dime an hour?
>>PERKINS: Yeah, I know.
It's nothing.
But what happens is not
only do the companies that
are working in those countries
object because they're
going to have to pay more to
laborers in those countries,
but basically every major
corporation that's working
in Latin America objects because
they know that nobody is going
to go below Honduras or Haiti.
So if they raise
their wage rates,
it means El Salvador
and Colombia and Ecuador
and every other country is
going to to raise their wage
rates, too, because
they all want
to stay at the same
level on the ladder.
And so Zelaya was
overthrown in a CIA coup,
replaced by a brutal,
terrible totalitarian dictator
who has just driven Honduras
into a police state.
And, of course, Correa
was watching this.
And then there was a coup
launched against Correa.
He was really standing up to
oil companies and gold mining
and other international
companies.
There was a coup
launched against him.
It was unsuccessful.
And I believe it was
meant to be unsuccessful,
because the leader of the coup
was the Commandant of Police.
And he was trained in the
School of the Americas,
he was part of the CIA circle.
But coups in Latin
America are not successful
unless you get the
military behind them.
The military stood
behind Correa.
>>REGINA: Do think it was just
to frighten him and intimidate
him?
>>PERKINS: I totally
believe that,
because the CIA knows that
the Commandant of Police
is not going to be successful
unless the military comes in.
And it worked.
>>REGINA: So he's diminished.
>>PERKINS: He's diminished.
And you know, I have
to say in his defense--
as I would say in the defense
of so many of these presidents,
including our own,
Obama-- that when
you start to look at these
things, a guy like Correa
has to say to himself,
you know, if they
overthrow me or assassinate
me, my successor
is going to be a total puppet.
And it's going to
set a precedent
all over Latin America.
It's going to scare every
other president that
tries to stand up to the system.
And so my challenge, the
most important thing I can do
is stay in office and
compromise the way I have to,
but focus on the things where
I think I can-- the battles
that I can win.
Focus on those.
>>REGINA: And if you look
at it on the macro scale,
who doesn't do that?
People are faced in their lives
with these kinds of decisions.
We just put a lot
of importance on it,
of course, when it
affects global events
and global economies.
But the reality is,
if you're looking
at it on a scale
of consciousness,
people are forced
into these positions
kind of on a niggling
day-to-day basis almost,
this kind of compromise in life.
And in his case,
you're talking--
and the leaders of
the world-- you're
talking about a price
that's very hefty.
It might be the lives
of their family members
or their own lives, or
character assassination.
And since we're on that, I know
you have some new work going
and you're writing a
new book right now.
And you're really
delving into the kinds
of pressure and vulnerability
of the leaders of the world.
So let's take another
country as an example.
Let's go back to the 1950s and
the US and Iran and President
Eisenhower.
And then carry that
Iranian situation forward
to the headlines that are in
the paper today, more sanctions.
My god.
Decade after decade, it's
the same old wheel of events.
>>PERKINS: Well, yes.
So back in the early '50s,
Iran had democratic elections,
which was pretty amazing
in and of itself, elected
Prime Minister Mosaddegh.
And Mosaddegh had run on,
again, a policy quite similar
to Correa's
Ecuadorian elections.
It said basically, we understand
that the international oil
companies need to be
here, but our people
need to get a fair share.
And these companies have
to behave responsibly
environmentally and socially.
And once he was
elected, he began
to impose some very
strict regulations
to make that happen.
Well, of course, we
and England, what's
today British Petroleum was very
active in Iran in those days,
were incensed over
this and decided
that we had to do
something about it.
Which I think in retrospect
is extremely unfortunate.
Because if we'd
supported him and said,
yes, let's help the Iranian
people benefit more,
that would've changed the whole
history of the Middle East.
I don't think we would have
anything near the problems
we have all over the
Middle East today
if we'd just supported that man.
But instead, we
decided he had to go.
Eisenhower-- well, first of all,
Truman wouldn't buy into it.
But he was about
to leave office.
When Eisenhower
came into office,
the Dulles brothers ran the
CIA and the State Department.
They were very strongly
opposed to Mosaddegh.
They called him a
socialist and that he
would be in the Russian
camp, and the Cold War
was on strong then.
But they didn't want
to send in the troops
because Russia had
nuclear weapons,
and we had nuclear weapons.
And they were afraid
that Russia would
enter the war on the side of
Iran and use nuclear weapons.
So they came up with
this plan of sending
in a CIA agent,
Kermit Roosevelt,
grandson of Teddy Roosevelt.
And Kermit went in with a
few hundred million dollars,
some large amount of money.
Not that large, not as large as
the military would have cost.
And he managed to
foment protests.
He paid a lot of people to go
out on the streets and protest.
And he made it look as though
Mosaddegh was very unpopular.
And he instituted a coup.
And so Mosaddegh was
put under house arrest
and the CIA brought
the Shah of Iran in.
And we all know that the
Shah became a great friend
of the oil companies and
all American corporations.
I've spent many-- over
a period of 10 years,
I probably spent a couple
of years in Iran developing
projects that were helping
us more than anybody else,
and a few of the Shah's cronies.
And so it was such a
successful experiment though,
using this economic
hitman, Roosevelt,
that it sent a
strong message out
to the State Department and
the presidency and the UN,
and what I call
the corporatocracy,
that we didn't need to
take the risk of war
or the tremendous expense.
We could accomplish
the same thing
by sending an individual
in with some money
to bring around presidents
in one way or another.
The only problem
was that Roosevelt
was a card-carrying CIA agent.
And if he'd been
caught, there would
have been egg on the face
of the US government.
>>REGINA: Right.
It could have looked bad.
It could've looked bad.
OK, so at the same time, this
was also in the early '50s,
there was a nuclear
agreement that
had been signed between
the United States and Iran,
if I understand it
correctly, and it
was called Atoms For Peace.
Right?
>>PERKINS: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: And here we
are now 60 years later,
and now we're back to this
whole notion of Atoms For Peace
being used for military
weaponization and all the fears
around it.
What happened then?
What went wrong with that?
We've been alternately
friends, enemies, friends,
we're frenemies.
Now I guess enemies, right?
>>PERKINS: Well, yeah.
>>REGINA: What's going on there?
>>PERKINS: It's a
terrible shame, you know,
what happened with Iran.
So once we overthrew Mosaddegh
and replaced him with the Shah,
there was tremendous
undercurrent of resentment.
Not just in Iran, but
all over the Middle East.
In fact, the world.
And it caused what we
call blowback eventually.
And this resulted in the Mullahs
taking over and overthrowing
the Shah years later.
But this resentment that
bubbled up-- and now,
today, we're in the situation
where we're fearful of Iran.
Iran controls a lot of oil.
Iran controls the
Straits of Hormuz,
where something like 20%
or more of the world's oil
passes through these straits.
Now there's a military base
down on the Straits of Hormuz
at a town called Bandar
Abbas, which I financed.
I arranged for that.
I was down there.
I spent a lot of
time in Bandar Abbas.
One of the hottest places
on the planet, you know.
So we were developing this
military base down there
for the Shah, but
basically for ourselves.
Because we thought, we, then,
the United States military,
would have control of
the Straits of Hormuz.
Of course today, it's in
the hands of the Mullahs
and they're using
it as leverage.
I don't think that the real
problem that we have with Iran
has anything to do
with nuclear weapons.
It has everything
to do with the fact
that Iran is
threatening to sell oil
on the international
market for something other
than dollars, open what they
call an International Oil
Bourse.
>>REGINA: That's the rumor.
>>PERKINS: Well, Qaddafi
threatened to do this.
Saddam Hussein
Chavez threatened to do this.
And every one of them was
taken down in the process.
Chavez wasn't, he resisted.
He overcame the
CIA coup in 2002,
but he'd dropped away from this
idea of an International Oil
Bourse.
So he, too, compromised a bit.
But both Qaddafi and Saddam
Hussein, neither one of them
backed down.
They were taken out.
I think this is really
the biggest thing that's
behind what's happening
in Iran today.
You've got to figure Iran is
surrounded by nuclear weapons.
Russia.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PERKINS: Pakistan, India and--
>>REGINA: Israel.
>>PERKINS: -now in Iraq.
Israel.
It's surrounded by
nuclear weapons.
It's kind of like
General Custer telling
the Indians they
couldn't have guns.
We can have guns, but
they can't have guns.
If you were Iranian, you'd say
why the heck shouldn't we have
what all of our neighbors have?
>>REGINA: Well, and they're
just insisting no, it's
for peaceful purposes, for
energy production and so forth.
But in reality,
why wouldn't they
want to be protecting
themselves?
>>PERKINS: That's true.
And yet, the evidence does
show that they may not
be developing nuclear
weapons, that it
is for peaceful purposes.
The point being,
however, I don't
think the whole
nuclear issue has much
to do with what's going on
between the United States
and Iran.
It has much more to do with the
dollar and the central banking
system.
>>REGINA: Petrodollar.
>>PERKINS: Petrodollar, central
banking system, and oil.
>>REGINA: OK, now
that's interesting,
because there was
some thought a year
or two ago when we
were speaking last
that they might switch over
to a petroeuro, for example.
Now look at everything
that's going on in the EU.
I mean, it can't all
be one big conspiracy,
because I don't think
they're that well organized
on certain levels.
But isn't it interesting no
matter which way you slice it,
it keeps shunting back
to the preservation
of this petrodollar.
>>PERKINS: Right.
You know.
I'm not what I would call
a conspiracy theorist.
I don't know what goes on.
But I have no reason from
personal experience--
which is what I base everything
on, I speculate much--
and I've never been in contact
with the one person who
sits at the top,
the Oz up there.
But the fact of the matter
is that our whole system
is driven by what I call
predatory capitalism, which
is a fairly new thing.
It's not what I was
taught in business school.
It came along in the '70s when
Milton Friedman, the Chicago
School of Economics, said, "The
only responsibility of business
is to maximize
profits regardless
of the social and
environmental cost."
That's not what I was
taught in business school.
I was taught you have
to take into account
the social and
environmental costs,
and that has to be
a big part of it.
But that all changed.
And so everything is driven
by that now, and especially
with the oil companies.
And the oil companies
are extremely powerful.
I don't think any of us has
a real appreciation for how
powerful they are, because it's
really not just about them.
They don't even have to lobby
that much because everybody
else is dependent on them.
The pharmaceutical industry
is dependent on oil.
Everybody is dependent on oil.
>>REGINA: All manufacturing.
>>PERKINS: All manufacturing.
Food that's wrapped in
plastic, that's oil.
So when big oil is threatened,
when we think the price of oil
might go up, everybody gets
on the bandwagon and objects
to this.
So oil has tremendous,
tremendous power.
And then the whole-- what I
call the corporatocracy, which
really are the people
that are running the world
today, the biggest leaders of
our multinational corporations.
And again, they don't
have to get together
to conspire to do something
illegal, a conspiracy.
They don't even know each other
half of them, I don't think.
But they do all follow
the same guideline,
which is maximize
profits regardless
of social and
environmental cost.
And whenever that's threatened,
they all come together.
So Shell and Chevron may be
competing for your dollar
at the gas station,
and Nike and Reebok
may be competing for your
dollar in the stores,
but if they're threatened in
any way by new regulations
they all come together.
>>REGINA: And they come together
also in the form of lobbying
on Capitol Hill--
>>PERKINS: And that's
how they come together.
>>REGINA: -in this country, and
elsewhere in the world, just
change policy.
>>PERKINS: Absolutely.
And if it involves
another country,
they put tremendous pressure
on the US government, the CIA,
the Pentagon to
stand behind them.
In fact, I would go so far as
to say that these institutions
today, the Pentagon,
the CIA, essentially
serve the interests
of big corporations.
They're not serving the--
they're not serving me,
they're not serving
you, they're not
serving the interests
of the American people.
>>REGINA: And it's so
archaic on one level
when you look at it, just
again, tying everything
to oil supplies globally.
And here we're sitting
on the precipice,
and have been for quite a long
time, of so many alternative
energies.
Literally on the precipice of
cold fusion it sounds like.
And yet, still you read
the headlines in the paper
this morning that we are
now threatening sanctions,
or I guess have
imposed sanctions
on countries that are
accepting oil and continuing
to buy from Iran
because of Iran's
supposed "nuclear program."
I mean this sounds like
1970s, 1980s, 1990s.
It doesn't change, the
story doesn't change.
Technology, everything around
it has really begun to change,
but nothing's changing.
>>PERKINS: Create a bad guy
You know, have somebody to-- we
talk about global
terrorism and the Axis
of Evil, which Iran is
theoretically part of.
But in my opinion, there's no
such thing as global terrorism.
There are acts of
terror, but an "ism"
implies a common philosophy.
So we know what communism
is, we know what socialism
is, we know what Catholicism
is, we know what capitalism is,
we can-- those are "isms,"
they have a common thread.
But I've talked with,
I've interviewed members
of FARC in Colombia and Somali
pirates and members of al-Qaeda
and the Taliban, and they
don't have anything in common.
There is no ism there.
The only thing
they have in common
is that their rank and
file are desperate people.
People who've been
driven off their lands
by big hydroelectric projects,
or oil companies, or Dole
and Chiquita, or
various other things,
depending on what part of the
world you're talking about.
These a desperate people.
>>REGINA: They're hungry.
>>PERKINS: They're hungry.
They're starving.
The Somali pirates
originally came
from fishermen whose
kids were starving
because their waters had
been fished clean illegally
by international fishing fleets,
and also the dumping of US
military vessels
in their waters,
which had polluted the waters.
And they complained for 22
years to the United Nations,
nobody did anything, and
their kids are starving.
And once, you know,
all you've got
to be is a 16-year-olod
boy on a fishing boat
that a couple of people on the
boat didn't catch any fish,
our kids are starving.
We're going to go over and
raid that ship over there
and get some food.
And you're a 16-year-old
kid, you've never even picked
up a gun, but suddenly
you're a pirate.
And so now, you might as well
go ahead and pick up a gun
and become a pirate,
because you are a pirate.
>>REGINA: And you
can't see a solution
any other way at this point.
>>PERKINS: You don't have--
there is no other solution.
And the world's created this,
we've created that situation.
And so this idea that
there's global terrorism,
it gets us all
incensed and it allows
us to use our tax dollars to
build the military up and up
and up and up, but
it's a false issue.
There was communism.
There was the Cold War between
capitalism and communism,
or however you
want to define it.
And we've tried basically
to recreate that today
and say that's global terrorism.
There is no such thing
as global terrorism.
Acts of terror, yes.
But if we want to
get rid of those,
we get rid of the causes.
We get rid of the desperation,
the poverty, the disease.
Half the world is
starving to death,
or on the verge of
starvation, while less than 5%
of the world's population of
us here in the United States
consumes almost 30% of
the world's resources.
That's a failed economic system.
It's not a model.
China cannot repeat it.
>>REGINA: It's not a model.
>>PERKINS: No, it's not.
China can't repeat it.
India can't repeat it.
Latin America can't repeat it.
They may want to,
but they can't.
The numbers don't add up.
5% consuming 30% of
the world's resources.
You can't take
that anywhere else.
>>REGINA: No, you can't.
And you just brought up
the subject of fairness,
and I recently interviewed
Lynne McTaggart
and she was talking about in
her book, "The Bond," talking
about these really
fundamentals of life.
And one of the biggest
ones was this innate sense
in human beings of what is fair.
And when people are
treated unfairly,
it does bring out the
less generous in oneself.
Even if you're a kind
and generous individual,
if you're confronted with
feeling taken advantage of,
your internal psyche
starts changing,
then your behavior
starts changing.
There are plenty of
experiments on this.
So why should we
assume there would
be anything but devastation
when you're talking about people
who've been essentially
starved out.
>>PERKINS: Right.
And we also have
created a philosophy
that's pretty global now
of scarcity and limitation.
And so if I want more, I've got
to take it from somebody else.
And I think part of
the Age of Aquarius,
part of all the prophecies,
2012, the eagle and the condor,
prophecies around the
world are telling us
that we're not living in a
time of scarcity or limitation.
We need to move out
of that and recognize
that there's abundance.
For example, this
idea of peak oil.
Well, I hope there is peak oil.
I hope that it happens
soon and then we'd
really turn to the
sun because we know--
>>REGINA: That's all there.
>>PERKINS: -there's
plenty of energy.
There's no scarcity of energy.
>>REGINA: No.
>>PERKINS: There's an abundance.
>>REGINA: No scarcity of energy.
We know that, and you
can look at it probably
1,000 different ways,
and each of those ways,
there's still no
scarcity of energy.
So that's a lie.
That's a lie.
And all of these manipulations
taking place in the daily news
are simply
perpetuated to keep us
in that fear
scenario of scarcity.
Because how can you rally
people, semi-educated people
if you call watching the
evening news educated,
how can you rally them
without fear at the basis?
>>PERKINS: Right.
And speaking of the
news, it's at best
entertainment, and at
worst just pure propaganda.
And it is feeding us this
line of scarcity and so forth.
And when you think
that less than 5%
of us living in
the United States
consumes 30% of the world's
resources, there's no scarcity.
>>REGINA: It's unconscionable.
>>PERKINS: And then we
talk about of that 5%,
it's 1% we say,
the 99% versus 1%,
but the fact is it's
much less than 1%.
I did the calculations.
400 individuals in this
country control more assets
than 50% of the population
of the United States.
400 individuals.
I did the math it's 0.0000035%.
It's way less than 1%.
And so, when you start to
look at numbers like that,
you realize it's not a
question of scarcity.
It's a question of justice.
It's a question of balance
and distribution of resources.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So we get that
mindset has to change.
But you have to go
some lengths to find
any kind of genuine information.
It's very hard to
decipher what's going on
because of flat out
disinformation and propaganda
that is the media of the worlds.
I mean, the other media,
it's not just America,
haven fallen into the same
trap to a very large extent.
There are a few good agencies
operating on their own
out there.
But, for the most part, it's
a pretty corrupt business.
It's infotainment, as you say.
And so let's talk
about how that feeds
into the lives of and the
election-- the election
process, but also the
lives of the world leaders.
Because of this new work
you're doing right now
and we have this
election looming.
Now it's down to
Romney and Obama.
So let's talk about what you're
discovering in your research.
>>PERKINS: It's interesting that
the book that I'm writing now
is fiction, it's a
novel, because when
I write nonfiction, I make
sure that I have everything
backed up that I have filed.
And after "Confessions of an
Economic Hit Man" came out,
several major organizations and
corporations tried to sue me.
And we had all the backup files
and sent them the information
and they went away.
So as I write this stuff, it's
hard to get hard information
on it so I'm writing it as a
novel, A, because of one thing,
I think it will reach another
class of people that don't read
non-fiction, and B, because
I really think I can tell
the truth better
in a novel than--
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
Wink, wink, it's--
>>PERKINS: -non-fiction.
>>REGINA: -a novel.
>>PERKINS: But a lot of
the theme of this novel
is the vulnerability
of world leaders today,
including our own president.
And the fact that the president
really doesn't have much power.
We, the people, do
ultimately have the power
if we'll just take it.
But the president
is so vulnerable.
We saw that in
Kennedy's day, Kennedy
was not dependent
upon big corporations.
His father had financed his
campaign, for the most part.
But very quickly he had
a fight with big steel
and put big steel down.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK BEGINS]
Increasing steel
prices by some $6 a ton
constitute a wholly unjustified
and irresponsible defiance
of the public interest.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK ENDS]
>>PERKINS: And he had
a fight with the CIA
over the Bay of Pigs in Cuba
and the Cuban Missile Crisis
and so on.
>>REGINA: But wasn't he trying
to go up against the Federal
Reserve as well?
>>PERKINS: Yes.
I mean he was making
a lot of enemies.
And everybody knew that John
Kennedy had a lot of women
in his life, including
famous ones like Marilyn
Monroe and Angie Dickinson,
but it was OK in those days.
You couldn't take
them out with that.
They had to take him
out with a bullet.
And, of course, his
brother came along and--
>>REGINA: But when you say that,
the media was more discreet.
They didn't necessarily-- that
wasn't the evening news with, I
think, you had Walter Cronkite
in those days and Chet Huntley.
That wasn't the evening news.
Now that would be headline news.
>>PERKINS: Right.
We've deteriorated so much,
because in those days,
like still in so
much of the world,
a politician or
leader's personal life
is considered just
that, personal life.
And we all have weaknesses,
and who can be perfect?
But today, we have a
totally different standard
and that gives a lot more
control to the press.
And let's face it,
the mainstream media
is owned by the
corporatocracy, either
through outright
ownership or it's
controlled through
advertising budgets.
>>REGINA: Well, and they have
a lot of CIA operatives at high
places--
>>PERKINS: Of course.
>>REGINA: -with network media.
>>PERKINS: There's a
tremendous interchange
of information between the two.
>>REGINA: Yes there is.
Well, and they said in
editorial positions as well.
People need to know that.
>>PERKINS: It's absolutely true.
There's a revolving door where
they're constantly changing.
And the same with
Robert Kennedy.
And Martin Luther King, Jr.
People knew that
Martin Luther King, Jr,
had what we might call
a shady background.
He had skeletons in his closet.
But they didn't come out.
Partly because the media
didn't bring it out.
The media was much more
independent in those days,
and there was a
different standard.
But also partly because
people didn't-- it wasn't that
important.
And things all changed.
And I think the women's
movement had a lot to do this.
I'm all for it.
I'm totally for what came
out of the women's movement.
But it did create a
different moral standard.
So when Clinton comes
along, one of the big voices
was against Monica Lewinsky
expressed by a lot of women
around the country
because of poor Hillary.
And there's a whole
different standard.
And in any case,
whatever it meant,
it meant that a president
could be impeached because
of a sexual act, which wasn't
even that interesting if you
ask me.
>>REGINA: No.
>>PERKINS: Most of the world
laughed at this whole thing.
>>REGINA: I know,
especially the French.
It was like, come
on, get a clue.
These are world leaders, they've
always done this, always will.
>>PERKINS: And soon after that
we stopped eating French fries
and ate Freedom Fries.
That's one way to get back
at those immoral French.
>>REGINA: That didn't take.
McDonald's still
sells French fries.
>>PERKINS: But in any
case, a new standard's set
and there's no doubt in my mind
that Linda Tripp was an agent.
And she'd been in the
Bush administration,
and she'd been in the Pentagon,
and she set Monica up.
She gave her a microphone and
said, don't wash the dress,
don't launder it.
It was a set up, it was a hit.
And Clinton got taken out.
And it looked as though at
that time that Clinton was--
as he was getting prepared when
he left office to maybe go up
against the Federal Reserve,
maybe do a few other things.
But he hasn't done
anything, obviously,
except now he hangs
out with the Bushes.
>>REGINA: I know.
I was just going
to bring that up.
Now they're all friends.
>>PERKINS: They're all friends.
Well, he got the message.
And I'm sure that Obama, if
he hadn't happened before,
as soon as he walked
into the Oval Office,
he got the message.
Like you're very, very
vulnerable, Mr. Obama,
and you've got to
realize that you've
got a few skeletons
in your closet.
And even if you don't,
between the FBI and the media,
we can create them, so
you better play the game.
And then they shot a few shots
across his bow, you know,
like is he a citizen,
is he gay, whatever
all these different things.
Was he born in Indonesia?
I don't know.
And not too long after that, the
head of the IMF, Strauss Kahn,
was brought down
by an accusation
by a chambermaid in
a hotel in New York.
And which was subsequently
thrown out of the courts.
I don't know the
truth behind it.
Maybe he raped her,
maybe he didn't.
I have no idea.
But what I do know is that when
something like that happens,
it puts the fear of God in Obama
and every other politician.
Because what they see is it
doesn't matter whether it turns
out to be true or not,
all you've got to do
is have a scandal, a rumor,
and you're emasculated.
You're assassinated.
Character assassination
is every bit as effective
as physical assassination
in terms of politics.
And the way that the CIA works
with corporations to help them
around the world establish
themselves, and it's mutual.
They work with each other
very, very, very closely.
It's a complex system.
And I wish I could say there's
this conspiracy with one person
up there.
Because if we believe that and
we could find that one person,
we could take care
of everything.
But it isn't.
It's much more
complex than that.
I think it's really
important for we, the people,
in the United States and around
the world to understand this.
>>REGINA: Meanwhile,
we have Greece
and what's happened there.
And you just wrote a
recent article on that.
What is your perception
when you look
at it from an economic
hitman point of view,
you look at it from
a debt point of view,
and then also the repercussions,
which, as you say,
is ultimately privatization
of public institutions.
>>PERKINS: Yes.
You know I've been spending
a lot of time recently--
and I spent a lot
of Latin America--
but I was also fairly
recently in Iceland
and I just came back from the
United Kingdom and Ireland
and lecturing in these places.
And what's been going
on throughout Europe,
and I would include Iceland
as part of that category,
is a big hit by economic hitmen.
And there's been this intent of
putting people deep into debt,
whether it's national
debt or personal debt,
private debt, as
a way of getting
more and more control over them.
And there's many
different iterations.
So what happened
in Iceland is quite
different from what's
happening in Greece
and what's happening in
Spain, which Spain now
is in the deep depression.
More than--
>>REGINA: What is
it, 50% unemployment?
>>PERKINS: -50% of its
young people are unemployed.
And what's happening in
Ireland is different.
But in all these cases, you
can see that the solution today
advocated by the big
banks and by governments
primarily, because they're
controlled by the big banks
or they're in
collusion with them--
is austerity for the people.
Don't tax the wealthy.
Don't do anything to hurt
the banks or the wealthy,
but force the people into
deeper and deeper austerity.
That is not the answer.
We know.
I'm an economist.
Any self-respecting economist
who has really studied
the Great Depression and other
depressions knows that what
you've got to do--
>>REGINA: You don't
punish the people.
>>PERKINS: You don't
And you do invest money in
things that employ people.
What we need is employment.
That is the big one.
It doesn't matter that the
GNP or GDP is going up,
that a few corporations
and a few individuals,
this 0.000035% of the
population, is doing better.
That may make the statistics
go up, but what we really need
is to get employment,
to get people to work,
to get people to be able to
pay off these incredible debts
that they have on their credit
cards and on their homes.
>>REGINA: So what's this
double-edged sword then
where you're talking about going
into Greece, or any country
really, and then privatizing
public sector types
of institutional jobs and such.
On one hand, need jobs.
On the other, it wouldn't
be the government
that would be providing
that any longer.
It would be some of these
preferred private corporations.
>>PERKINS: It's called
asset stripping,
and it's part of
empire building.
It's as old as empire.
And it's what part of my job was
when I was an economic hitman,
was to put these
countries deep into debt,
and then they
couldn't pay the debt.
So then we go back
in-- usually it
was the World Bank and
its sisters that put them
into the debt, along with
me, the economic hitman.
Then the IMF goes in to help
them restructure the debt.
What the IMF does
is demand that they
have certain forms of
government, A, that we like.
They don't have to be
democratic, as long
as they are supporting
our corporations.
And that they sell what
we'd consider public assets,
like electric companies and
water and sewage companies,
and maybe their prisons and
their schools and their ports
and their airports
and their highways,
sell them to private
corporations.
So again, it goes
back to this theory
that the only
responsibility of business
is to maximize profits,
and businesses shouldn't
be regulated, and everything
should be privatized.
Get government out, let the
big corporations control
the governments.
They control the assets.
And in fact, it's happened.
Even before they
control the assets,
already the big
corporations control
most of the world's
major governments
in one way or another.
And they control the
mainstream press.
And so this asset
stripping is just
another step in that direction.
It's putting everything in the
hands of the big corporations--
of what I call the
corporatocracy, the few,
primarily men, few women around
the world who run our biggest
multinational corporations.
They're the ones who
are taking control.
They're the modern
equivalent of the emperor.
And I think this is the hope.
That every one of us
needs to recognize
that we, as individuals,
have tremendous power,
each individual, we all have it.
And each of us has passions.
And we have talents.
So I have a passion for
writing, and hopefully,
some talent at it.
You have a passion and talent
for producing documentaries
and films.
But everybody has
passion and talent.
And if we all channel those
passions and those talents
toward creating a
sustainable, just,
peaceful world that's
thriving for all beings--
we will get there.
I think this needs to
be the mantra today.
And we need to
recognize that we've
got to force the corporations--
that the corporations are
very, very vulnerable.
They're running the world,
and we run them ultimately.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PERKINS: The marketplace
is a democracy,
if we choose to make it that.
And we've shown this
time and time again.
When I was in college, there
was apartheid in South Africa
and we boycotted
corporations that
supported it and it changed.
And now I think we have
to take this up a notch
and convince the
corporations we're only
going to buy from those
corporations that are committed
to making a decent rate of
return on their capital.
That's OK.
But not maximizing
profits regardless
of social and
environmental cause.
They've got to be
committed to being socially
and environmentally
responsible, to creating a world
that my grandson, who is 5 years
old, will want to grow up in.
And to recognize
that that world has
to include every
child on the planet.
And this is new in history.
We used to only have to worry
about the United States.
That was certainly
true in World War II.
>>REGINA: It is a
global community.
>>PERKINS: Today, we've got
to recognize that my grandson
in the United States cannot
inherit a sustainable, just,
peaceful, thriving world
unless every child growing up
in Bolivia, Botswana,
Indonesia, Palestine,
and Israel also inherits
that same world.
This is new.
We've discovered--
and we're all talking
to each other for
the first time,
we're communicating
across the planet
through all these
technologies, and we've
discovered that we're living
on a very, very fragile space
station.
But unlike the space station
that our astronauts built,
this one doesn't
have any shuttles.
You can't get off.
I can't get off.
And debt is the modern
chains of slavery.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Let's get to Latin Americans
and what happened there,
some recent scandals
that occurred
and the extension of that.
>>PERKINS: Well,
first of all, I want
to say that in
the last 10 years,
10 countries in Latin America
representing more than 80%
of the population
of South America
have voted in in
democratic elections,
presidents that have stood
up to the corporatocracy.
There have been varying
different degrees.
>>REGINA: It's been amazing.
>>PERKINS: Yeah.
It's been different in
Bolivia from Ecuador or Chile
or Argentina, they're
all different.
But every one of
these 10 countries
during most of my lifetime
was run by brutal dictators,
primarily put into power by the
CIA and kept there by the CIA.
And this is all changed.
It actually changed
after 2002, after Chavez
showed that he could
stand up to the CIA.
>>REGINA: And he
wasn't assassinated.
>>PERKINS: No.
Well, no.
We backed down.
Bush and the CIA were
shown as paper tigers.
And you can think whatever
you want about Chavez,
he's eccentric to say the least.
>>REGINA: He's a
big personality.
>>PERKINS: But the
fact of the matter
is he changed history
in Latin America.
So big things happened.
There's been a real
revolution, a quiet revolution.
We don't talk about it
in the United States.
It doesn't make the
press even hardly.
But it's been big.
And one example of how
it doesn't make the press
is that the recent summit that
was held in Cartagena, Colombia
that Obama was at, the majority
of the presidents of Latin
America really
strongly protested
US policies toward drug
trafficking and the fact
that they said, you've
got to get drugs
under control in your country.
It's not about sending
your military down here
or your CIA to Columbia, or
Mexico or other countries.
>>REGINA: We're the consumers.
>>PERKINS: You're the consumers.
Mr. President, Mr. Obama
take this seriously.
And several other
issues like this
never made the news
in the United States.
And instead, we focused on a
dozen Secret Security agents
who had prostitutes in their
hotel room, which incidentally
is not illegal in Colombia.
It may be against the
Secret Service policy,
but what concerned
me is I couldn't
get any news about
what was going
on in that summit
in the US press.
Just minimal amounts except
about the prostitution
scandal with the Secret Service.
To get the real news,
I had to go online.
Fortunately, I read Spanish.
I could get the real news from
Latin American publications.
But the American
people are being
kept in the dark
in so many ways.
And one of the big
things is we're
kept in the dark about
the amazing things that
have been going on
in Latin America.
And now the fact that we are
overthrowing governments,
like Zelaya and attempt
at Correa in Ecuador--
and because these countries have
elected these presidents now,
the economic hitmen
are going in.
They're playing the game
that I used to play.
And you know, just a few months
ago I spoke at a conference
in Istanbul.
4,000 leaders of the
communications industry,
CFOs and CEOs of big
communications companies, and I
was the keynote opening speaker.
And what I said to
these people is,
you know, we've created
a world-- now you've
created a world
where everybody's
talking to everybody else
through the internet,
through Skyping,
through cell phones.
But you now have
to ask yourselves,
what do you want these
people to be communicating?
What are you going to encourage
them to communicate about?
Do you want them to
continue to discuss the sex
lives of Hollywood
stars and politicians?
The latest fashions
in Paris and New York?
>>REGINA: Who is in rehab?
>>PERKINS: Who is in rehab?
And who's winning the World
Cup and so on and so forth.
Maybe a little bit.
But let's focus on
what's really important.
And people are
hungering for this.
>>REGINA: Yes.
It's not like there's a
shortage of good information.
It's just that en mass, we
need to start valuing it.
And also, talk about
the corporatocracy
and its power or not.
As you said earlier, the power
is actually in our hands,
all you have to do
is turn off the media
and now you have panic.
There are a lot of
advertising dollars flowing,
a lot of impressions
that are trying
to be laid through that
media to sell those products,
so that they can keep these
ridiculous policies going
in other countries.
It's a really
interesting circle.
>>PERKINS: Well, it is.
>>REGINA: It's really all
in our hands, isn't it?
>>PERKINS: Yes, it is.
We do have control if
we just recognize that.
>>REGINA: And the Dalai Lama,
you sat next-- I love this.
I asked you this last time-- but
the Dalai Lama was next to you
on the airplane
one time and he had
read "Confessions of an
Economic Hit Man," hadn't he?
>>PERKINS: He had read-- it
was before it was came out
actually.
He'd read "Shape Shifting."
>>REGINA: "Shape Shifting," OK.
And so you were talking
with him back and forth,
and wasn't he telling
you something, I thought,
profound about
meditation is great but.
>>PERKINS: Yeah,
so the Dalai Lama
invited me to sit next
to him on the airplane.
And then he invited my whole
group--I was leading a group
of about 30 people-- to
his house in Dharamsala
for a meeting in
his living room.
And at that talk
he said, "You know,
it's good to meditate
and pray for peace,
but if that's all you do,
forget it, because," he said,
"we have to take action, too."
And in fact, he went on
to say that if all you do
is pray for peace and
meditate for peace and figure
you've done your
job and walk away,
then it's counterproductive.
Because we've really all got
to go out and take action
every single day.
And I think the Dalai Lama is
such a great example of that.
Here's one of the world's
great spiritual leaders
who meditates for
hours every day,
but he's also always out there.
He's got hundreds of
best selling books out.
He seems to be
speaking everywhere.
I travel around
the world speaking
and the Dalai Lama is
always right ahead of me
or right behind me.
He's everywhere.
>>REGINA: And he's had to
deal with political strife
and manipulation in his
own country and his people.
So it's not as though he's
not familiar with this.
He understands what happens
when a government chooses
to lay an impression
or unseat indigenous
people and their ways.
>>PERKINS: The Dalai Lama's
a great example that way.
And Mother Teresa
was another one.
And there's so many.
There's a lot of people
doing amazing, amazing things
in the world.
I think what we each have to
recognize is that each of us
has that ability.
Every one of us has the ability
to do what Rosa Parks did
and walk to the front of a bus.
It may take courage, but
she changed the world
by walking to the
front of a bus.
Or Rachel Carson sat down
one day at a little desk
in Pennsylvania and started
scribbling out with a pencil
a book called "Silent Spring."
She had no idea it
would ever be published.
Much less that it would start
a whole environmental movement
around the world.
It really was the
driving force behind what
today is the
environmental movement.
She just sat down at a
desk and started writing.
We all have the power to do
whatever it is we do best,
and to recognize that
it can change the world.
Each one of us has that ability.
And when we all come together
and commit to doing that,
it will happen.
I'm very hopeful.
I know it's going to happen.
I know we're going
to pull through this
and we're going to do this.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
I think we are.
And it's really going to
rest on the next generation.
And as we wrap up
our conversation,
any final comment about--
you've mentioned your grandson
a couple of times now,
who is now five years old,
any thoughts on how we
inspire the next generation
or what our
responsibility to them
is in releasing these
charades, these illusions?
>>PERKINS: I think what we
need to tell this upcoming
generation, and I do every
chance I get in speaking out
and so forth and with young
kids too, very young kids, is
that we're in perhaps
the most revolutionary
times in human history.
We're in a bigger revolution
than the Agricultural
Revolution or the
Industrial Revolution
or the American Revolution.
This is a revolution
of consciousness.
We're waking up.
And we're seeing it in
the Occupy movement,
we're seeing it in
the Arab Spring,
we're seeing it in what's
happening in Latin America,
happening in Europe,
we're seeing it with
demonstrations against Putin
and things happening in
China, people around the world
are really beginning to wake up.
Thank goodness for
movies like this,
for getting this
information out.
People are getting it.
And so we need to let
the young folks know
that just follow their passions.
Go for it.
We've got to create a better
world, and we can do it.
The information's
getting out there
and we have the power to do it.
The corporations are
running the world today,
and that's good
news because we have
control over the corporations.
Every time you buy
something or choose not to,
you're casting a vote.
And I think it's a much more
powerful vote than the one you
cast every four years,
or maybe every two years,
in the ballot boxes.
Because you're casting
this one frequently.
And it's going right
to the real power
sources, which is
the corporations.
And you have to let
the corporations know.
You've got to send
an email and let
them know why you're not
buying their products
or why you are buying
their products.
And to recognize that we
have this amazing power.
And to let our children
and grandchildren
really feel empowered
and with the hope
that we can do
something much greater.
And the recognition that there's
prophecies in every indigenous
culture that I'm
aware of, and I've
worked with many around the
world, that tell us we're
at this time for the potential
for tremendous transformation.
>>REGINA: We are, indeed.
But it does require
our participation.
And then we come down to the
simplest little conundrum,
like bananas.
How do you get your bananas when
you cut out Chiquita and Dole?
I say that tongue-in-cheek,
how do you do that?
>>PERKINS: That's
an interesting one
because I teach a lot at Omega,
what you would call a new age
teaching facility
in upstate New York,
and they are very
committed to being socially
and environmentally conscious.
And I noticed that
their bananas were Dole.
And so I told the
CEO, I said, don't you
know that Dole is killing people
and treating people brutally
throughout Central America
and parts of South America?
So he went back to
the distributor,
and the distributor
didn't know this either.
And so the distributor
said, gosh, we're
going to cancel all of
our contracts with Dole
and we're going to
find alternatives.
And they did.
They found fair trade
bananas from South America.
>>REGINA: OK, that's
what we need to do,
put our pressure on.
>>PERKINS: Put your pressure
on your local store.
There are fair
trade bananas that
are not Dole or
Chiquita or Del Monte.
And put pressure on your
store, and put pressure
on your suppliers.
And that mushrooms.
>>REGINA: Yes, it does.
And there's a good place
to start, with the morning
smoothie.
So on that note, I thank you
so much for taking the time.
I know you're on
your way to Ecuador.
You have ongoing
relationships there
and a lot of good
stuff coming up
and you've taken
this time with us.
I appreciate it.
>>PERKINS: Thank you very much.
My pleasure.
Keep up your great work.
This is so important.
This is what freedom of the
press is all about, Regina.
Thank you for doing what you do.
>>REGINA: I highly encourage
you to read his book,
"Confessions of an Economic Hit
Man," and the follow up book,
"Hoodwinked."
Both provide an
invaluable education
in economics and politics.
Meanwhile, you might also
enjoy my previous conversation
with John, which you can
find under Conscious Media
Network on this site.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]